JUDY WOODRUFF: Brutal
wars in the Middle East,
Africa and Asia have forced
the world's populations
of refugees and displaced
persons to near record highs.
Meanwhile, the Trump
administration has
signaled its intention to
substantially change U.S.
refugee policy.
Filippo Grandi, who is
the United Nations' top
official leading the
response to the refugee
crisis, is in Washington
this week for meetings at
the White House and Pentagon.
Our William Brangham sat down
with him earlier this evening.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Hi,
Commissioner Filippo Grandi.
Welcome.
FILIPPO GRANDI, United
Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees: Thank you.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You're here
in Washington, D.C., obviously
this week to meet with some
members of the Trump
administration.
I'm curious, what message are
you here to convey to them?
FILIPPO GRANDI: A message
that I have already
conveyed in previous visits.
U.S. leadership in humanitarian
matters and specifically in
matters concerning responses
to refugee crisis is
very important, continues
to be very important.
And the response I
get is quite good.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
What is that response?
What do you hear back from them?
FILIPPO GRANDI: Well, I think
we all watched Ambassador Haley,
the U.S. ambassador to United
Nations...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
Nikki Haley, yes.
FILIPPO GRANDI: ... visit
recently refugee programs
in Turkey and in Georgia.
We're talking about Syrian
refugees, the biggest
refugee crisis in the world.
And her message was very
clear and very strong.
United States' generosity and
United States' support for
refugees continues to be strong
and constant.
And I greatly appreciated
this message on her part.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I know
Ambassador Haley has said
that on several occasions.
But we have also seen President
Trump try to pass through
an executive order that, in
effect, says, we're not taking
any refugees in the U.S.
And the president has conflated
refugees with the fear of
terrorism, saying, we can't know
who these people are.
Is this something
that you bring up with
administration officials?
Do you talk with them
about those concerns
that they have shared?
FILIPPO GRANDI: A great deal.
In fact, I don't think there
was ever any statement saying
that no more refugees should
come to the United States.
There were decisions to increase
the vetting of those selected
to come here and to limit
certain nationalities.
All this, as you know,
is now being discussed
in the judicial sphere.
So we have to wait for
that discussion, which
is an American, a U.S.
discussion to finish.
Our message is, resettlement
programs -- this is what we're
talking about -- are a very
important tool to protect
the most vulnerable refugees.
And vetting is already quite
strong for those refugees
that enter that program.
Of course, this is a sovereign
decision of the United
States, but I think and I hope
that, after all this is done,
after conclusions are made,
that program will be preserved.
I think it may be reduced to
previous higher levels, but
I hope that, with the passage
of time and once these controls
-- once the administration
confident that the controls
are there, will we continue
to see robust resettlement
to the United States.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The reason
I ask about this is, this is
not just a concern expressed by
President Trump, but even
Chancellor Angela Merkel in
Germany has seen a good deal of
resistance to her very
open embrace of refugees.
There still is a very strong
fear, a conflation of refugees
with the fear of terrorism.
And I'm just curious what you
-- what do you say to world
leaders when they express this,
that we don't have the
political appetite to take
refugees onto our shores?
FILIPPO GRANDI: The
fear of insecurity is
a very understandable
one, especially in a
world in which terrorism
has created so much damage
and killed so many people.
And we are, of course,
with states in saying
controls, checks, vetting
have to be carried
out in the most -- in the
strongest possible way.
This is absolutely true.
But I also pass another message.
In fact, it's very rare, if
ever, that refuges coming from
situations of war, of violence,
of violations of human rights
perpetrate crimes of terrorism.
It is not they who do that.
It is other people.
In fact, those people
do not bring terror.
Refugees flee from terror.
I think it's very important
not to conflate refugees and
terrorists in this sense.
It's very important to control,
it's very important to check,
but it's also very important
to make that distinction,
and never forget where
these people come from.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Lastly, a
quick question on funding.
I know this is obviously an
enormous challenge for the U.N.
Do you have enough money to
do the work you need to do?
FILIPPO GRANDI: Certainly not.
Our budget last year was
calculated at 7 billion
U.S. dollars, 2016.
We got billion U.S. dollars.
So about 55 percent of
our needs the covered.
This means that we do a
lot of prioritization.
And we prioritize, evidently.
With so many refugee
crises, with 65 million
refugees and displaced
people around the world,
we have to prioritize
lifesaving activities.
What suffers?
What suffers what is not
immediately vital and necessary,
but which is equally important,
like education, livelihoods.
That's why we're looking at
other ways to meet those needs
with other sources of funding,
because they're equally
important in the long
run to sustain assistance
to millions of refugees.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Filippo
Grandi, thank you very
much for being here.
FILIPPO GRANDI: Thank you.